Update 10.mass-spectrometers.md (#79)
jessegmeyerlab/proteomics-tutorial: content/10.mass-spectrometers.md

## Types of Mass Spectrometers used for Proteomics {.page_break_before}
### Mass spectrometry

> Mass spectrometry serves as a sophisticated instrument for determining the masses of compounds and elements, is a science of ions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mass spectrometry is a science of ions; it serves as a sophisticated instrument for determining the masses of compounds and elements. 
```

> It can be likened to an ultra-precise scale that can differentiate mass variations down to a single proton or even lower. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be likened to an ultra-precise weigh scale that can differentiate mass variations down to a single electron, or even lower. 
```

> Since J.J. Thomson's initial exploration in 1912, the field of mass spectrometry has undergone numerous improvements, spanning from isotope assessment to the interpretation of biomacromolecules[@DOI:10.1021/ac8013065], all thanks to the combined efforts of diverse fields like chemistry, physics, electronic engineering, and computer science. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since J.J. Thomson's initial exploration in 1912, the field of mass spectrometry has undergone numerous improvements, spanning from isotope assessment to the interpretation of biomacromolecules [@DOI:10.1021/ac8013065], all thanks to the combined efforts of diverse fields like chemistry, physics, electronic engineering, and computer science. 
```

> Nowadays, with the rapid improvement of sensitivity, mass resolution, tandem mass spectrometry methods and dissociation methods, mass spectrometers have evolved as a core tool for proteomics and metabolomic analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nowadays, with the rapid improvement of sensitivity, mass resolution, tandem mass spectrometry methods and dissociation methods, mass spectrometers have evolved as a core tool for proteomics (and metabolomic) analysis.
```

> Additionally, it is precisely the widespread application of mass spectrometry in omics analysis that has given rise to more instrument manufacturers and a greater diversity of mass spectrometer types. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is precisely the widespread application of mass spectrometry in proteomics analysis that has given rise to more instrument manufacturers and a greater diversity of mass spectrometer types. 
```

> This also brings a happy annoyance to many beginners or researchers in other fields who have no background in mass spectrometry: which manufacturer and which type of mass spectrometry should I choose to analyze my project? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also brings a happy annoyance to many beginners or researchers in other fields who have no background in mass spectrometry: which manufacturer and which type of mass spectrometry should I choose to analyze my samples? 
```

Here, to help new learners build a basic understanding faster, we will briefly introduce some basic concepts, common types of mass spectrometers, and their suitable application scenarios. 

> ### Structure and principles   

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Mass Spectrometer Structure and Basic Principles   
```

> The fundamental principle of mass spectrometry revolves around specific physical processes and mathematical formulas. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fundamental principle of mass spectrometry revolves around specific physical processes that can be described by various mathematical formulas. 
```

Since this article serves as a guide for those new to the field, particularly those from a biology background, we've chosen to steer clear of delving too deeply into intricate mathematical and physical explanations. 
However, for those keen on a deeper understanding, we've included references pertaining to these foundational principles. 
In this piece, our focus lies on introducing fundamental concepts and outlining the typical workflow in mass spectrometry.

> The process of mass spectrometry (MS) is to generate gas phase ions from compounds in samples by any suitable method, to separate these ions by their mass-to-charge ratio (m/z), and then detect them by their respective m/z and abundance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The process of mass spectrometry (MS) is to generate gas phase ions from compounds in samples by any suitable method, to separate these ions by their mass-to-charge ratio (m/z), and then detect them by their respective m/z and abundance. 
```

> The successful implementation and demonstration of this process requires participation of five fundamental systems (images/ms_f101.svg) (Figure 10.1):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The successful implementation and demonstration of this process requires participation of five fundamental systems (Figure X):
```

1)	The ion source, where gas phase ions are generated.
Common methods of ionization in mass spectrometry includes electrospray ionization (ESI), matrix assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI), atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI), electron ionization (EI) and chemical ionization (CI) [@DOI:10.1016/j.aca.2015.07.012; @DOI:10.1080/05704928.2014.954046].
For proteomic analysis, soft ionization methods such as ESI and MALDI are the most widely applied techniques [@DOI:10.1126/science.2675315;@DOI:10.1002/rcm.1290020802], which will be discussed in next chapter and no more redundance here.

> 2)	The mass analyzer, where gas phase ions are separated according to their mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) based on physic principles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2)	The mass analyzer, where gas phase ions are separated according to their mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) based on physics principles.
```

> There are several types of mass analyzers applied in mass spectrometry, such as time-of-flight (TOF), quadrupole, ion trap, orbitrap, Fourier transform-ion cyclotron resonance (FT-ICR), and magnetic sector analyzers[@DOI:10.3389/fchem.2021.813359; @DOI:10.1146/annurev-anchem-071114-040325 ], each with unique advantages and applications (Table 10.1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several types of mass analyzers applied in mass spectrometry, such as time-of-flight (TOF), quadrupole, ion trap, orbitrap, Fourier transform-ion cyclotron resonance (FT-ICR), and magnetic sector analyzers [@DOI:10.3389/fchem.2021.813359; @DOI:10.1146/annurev-anchem-071114-040325], each with unique advantages and applications (Table 10.1).
```

> For proteomic analysis, tandem mass spectrometry, which involves combining two or three different mass analyzers, is typically used to achieve precursor selection, structural analysis, improved sensitivity, and better mass resolution [@DOI:10.1016/j.jasms.2007.11.013].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For proteomic analysis, tandem mass spectrometry, which involves combining two or more mass analyzers, is typically used to achieve precursor selection, structural analysis, improved sensitivity, and better mass resolution [@DOI:10.1016/j.jasms.2007.11.013].
```

3)	The detector, where separated ions are detected and their respective m/z values and abundances are recorded, generating a mass spectrum.
Common types of ion detectors, including the Electron Multiplier (EM), Photomultiplier Tube (PMT), Microchannel Plate (MP) and Faraday Cup (FC) [@DOI:10.11648/j.cbe.20180304.11], along with their strengths and limitations, are illustrated in Table 10.2.
It is worth noting that Orbitrap and FT-ICR mass analyzers don't use conventional detectors as listed above.
Instead, they detect ions in a fundamentally different way by detecting image current produced by oscillating ions [@DOI:10.1002/9780470027318.a9309.pub2; @DOI:pub2;10.1021/ac4001223; @DOI:10.1016/B978-0-12-814013-0.00005-3].
In both mass analyzers, the detector is essentially measuring an electrical current (or more accurately, a voltage that's proportional to the current) that's induced by the motion of the ions.
This signal is then processed to extract the frequencies of oscillation and fourier-transformed into a mass spectrum, which is quite different from other types of detectors that count individual ions or particles striking a surface.

> 4)	The vacuum system, which is designed to maintain a vacuum environment for ions’ movement inside the instrument, are consist of different type of pumps including rough vacuum pumps (rotary vane pumps, scroll pumps) and high vacuum pumps (turbo molecular pumps, diffusion pumps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4)	The vacuum system, which is designed to maintain a vacuum environment for ions’ movement inside the instrument, consists of different type of pumps including rough vacuum pumps (rotary vane pumps, scroll pumps) and high vacuum pumps (turbo molecular pumps, diffusion pumps).
```

> The reason for maintaining a high vacuum is to reduce the collision between ions and gas molecules during their travel, which can affect their trajectory and patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason for maintaining a high vacuum is to reduce the collision between ions and gas molecules during their travel, which can affect their trajectory.
```

> FT-ICR and Orbitrap usually require higher vacuum in the 10-9 to 10-11 Torr level, while TOF requires medium vacuum in the 10-7  to 10-8 Torr range, and Quadrupole and Ion trap require a relative lower vacuum in the 10-5  to 10-6 Torr range. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FT-ICR and Orbitrap instruments usually require higher vacuum in the 10-9 to 10-11 Torr level, while TOFs require medium vacuum in the 10-7  to 10-8 Torr range, and Quadrupole and Ion trap require a relative lower vacuum in the 10-5  to 10-6 Torr range. 
```

5)	The control system, which primary role is to regulate and coordinate the various parts of the mass spectrometer to ensure seamless functioning.
This typically includes ion source control, mass analyzer control, detector control, data acquisition control, interfacing with auxiliary systems (such as a liquid chromatograph and gas chromatograph), and modules for instrument diagnostics and calibration.

![**Figure 10.1 Schematic diagram of typical mass spectrometer modules.**](images/MS_f101.svg){#fig:figure10.1 tag="1" width="80%"}.
Figure 10.1 Schematic diagram of typical mass spectrometer modules.

Table 10.1 Common mass analyzers.

> | Type | Acronym | Principle | Characters |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Type | Acronym | Principle | Characteristics |
```

|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| Time-of-flight | TOF | Time dispersion of a pulsed ion beam; separation by the time it takes for ions to travel a fixed distance|High-speed analysis, large mass range and good sensitivity. Suited for fast data acquisition and high-throughput applications. Modern TOF systems usually can achieve mass resolution well over 10,000 (m/Δm) or even higher. |

> | Linear quadrupole | Q | Continuous ion beam in linear radio frequency quadrupole field; separation due to instability of ion trajectories |High transmission efficiency. simple design, good sensitivity, and tunable mass range. Relatively low mass resolution ranges from several hundreds to a thousand. Often used in tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) experiments |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Linear quadrupole | Q | Continuous ion beam in linear radio frequency quadrupole field; separation due to instability of ion trajectories |High transmission efficiency, simple design, good sensitivity, and tunable mass range; relatively low mass resolution ranges from several hundreds to a thousand; often used in tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) experiments |
```

| Quadrupole ion trap | QIT | Traps ions by electromagnetic fields; separation in three-dimensional radio frequency quadrupole field by resonant excitation |Efficient for fragmenting ions and structural elucidation, higher sensitivity, and relatively compact which good for benchtop instruments. Relatively a low mass resolution around 1,000 - 3,000. |

> | Fourier transform-ion cyclotron resonance | FT-ICR | Traps ions in a strong magnetic field by Lorentz force; separation by cyclotron frequency, image current detection and Fourier transformation of transient signal |Ultimate high mass resolution (up to 1,000,000), making it ideal for elemental and isotopic analysis. Large size, low speed, and expensive in terms of both initial purchase cost and ongoing operation and maintenance costs. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Fourier transform-ion cyclotron resonance | FT-ICR | Traps ions in a strong magnetic field by Lorentz force; separation by cyclotron frequency, image current detection and Fourier transformation of transient signal |Ultimate high mass resolution (up to 1,000,000), making it ideal for elemental and isotopic analysis. Large size, low speed, and expensive in terms of both initial purchase cost and ongoing operation and maintenance costs. |
```

| Orbitrap | Orbitrap | Axial oscillation in inhomogeneous electric field; detection of frequency after Fourier transformation of transient signal |Extremely high resolution and accuracy (up to 500,000), capable of resolving complex mixtures with high sensitivity. Relatively low speed, expensive in terms of both initial purchase cost and ongoing operation and maintenance costs. Need high vacuum. |

Table 10.2 Common detectors.

> | Type | Principle | Characters |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Type | Principle | Characteristics |
```

|----------|----------|----------|

> | Electron Multiplier | Amplifies signals by utilizing a sequence of dynodes that emit secondary electrons when struck by an incident electron, creating a cascading effect. This results in an amplified output current at the final anode, proportional to the intensity of the initial signal. | Very good signal amplification to even one electron (may cause more noise if offer higher gain), High sensitivity, need high vacuum and high voltage, expensive. Limited dynamic range, finite lifespan and need to be replaced periodically |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Electron Multiplier | Amplifies signals by utilizing a sequence of dynodes that emit secondary electrons when struck by an incident electron, creating a cascading effect. This results in an amplified output current at the final anode, proportional to the intensity of the initial signal. | Very good signal amplification to even one electron (may cause more noise dependent on gain), high sensitivity, need high vacuum and high voltage, expensive. Limited dynamic range, finite lifespan and need to be replaced periodically |
```

| Faraday Cup | Charged particles, such as ions or electrons, enter the cup and transfer their charge to it, causing a change in electric potential that can be measured over time to infer the number of particles. | Suitable for particles and charge state detection. Simplicity and robustness, Wide dynamic range, no need for high voltage and high vacuum. Lower sensitivity. Sensitive to Secondary Emission directional sensitivity (direction of incoming particles)|

> | Microchannel Plate | Similar to electron multiplier, a two-dimensional matrix or "plate" of many tiny, parallel, hollow channels made from a type of glass that can generate secondary electron emissions upon incident particles striking the channel walls.  These secondary emissions create an electron avalanche down the channels and amplifies the original signal. | Signal Amplification (Not as good as electron multiplier, but alower noise), Spatial Resolution ability, shorter life expectancy due to channel aging and depletion of the secondary emission material, smaller and cheaper than electron multiplier |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Microchannel Plate | Similar to electron multiplier, a two-dimensional matrix or "plate" of many tiny, parallel, hollow channels made from a type of glass that can generate secondary electron emissions upon incident particles striking the channel walls.  These secondary emissions create an electron avalanche down the channels and amplifies the original signal. | Signal Amplification (Not as good as electron multiplier, but lower noise), Spatial Resolution ability, shorter life expectancy due to channel aging and depletion of the secondary emission material, smaller and cheaper than electron multiplier |
```

| Daly Detector | Directing ions onto a surface (Doorknob) to trigger the emission of electrons, which are then accelerated towards a phosphor screen to produce photons, that are subsequently detected and amplified by a photomultiplier tube, thereby converting the ion signal into a measurable electrical signal. | High gain, ruggedness, wide dynamic range, suitable for high mass and high energy ions. Limited mass resolution, larger size and need high voltage, finite lifespan. |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Types of mass spectrometers used for proteomics. 
Typically, mass spectrometers are named based on the abbreviations of their principal or tandem mass analyzers. 
This naming convention stems from the fact that the mass analyzer forms the core component of a mass spectrometer, and it also dictates key performance attributes such as mass resolution, scanning speed, sensitivity, and cycle time. 
These performance metrics, in turn, determine what type of analysis we can conduct, its speed and its accuracy. 
Next, we will focus on introducing several classic tandem mass spectrometry types commonly used in proteomics.

> ### 1. Triple quadrupole 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Triple quadrupole (QQQ).
```

> Triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (often abbreviated as QqQ, TQ, or TQMS), as suggested by the name, is a type of tandem mass spectrometer that three quadrupole mass analyzers are combined in series (Figure 10.2). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (often abbreviated as QqQ, QQQ, TQ, or TQMS), as suggested by the name, is a type of tandem mass spectrometer where three quadrupole mass analyzers are combined in series (Figure 10.2). 
```

> Each quadrupole is essentially a set of four parallel metal rods to which radio frequency (RF) and direct current (DC) voltages are applied to each opposing pair of rods. The QqQ operate in a synchronized manner to isolate ions of interest (according to the Mathieu function), induce fragmentation, and then detect the resulting fragment ions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each quadrupole is essentially a set of four parallel metal rods to which radio frequency (RF) and direct current (DC) voltages are applied to each opposing pair of rods. 
The QqQ operate in a synchronized manner to isolate ions of interest (according to the Mathieu function), induce fragmentation, and then detect the resulting fragment ions. 
```

Specifically, first quadrupole (Q1) is a mass filter, where ions of a specific mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) are selected from the incoming ion beam. 

> This is achieved by adjusting the voltage applied to the pair rods within the quadrupole, allowing ions with a particular m/z value to pass through while deflecting others. Second quadrupole (Q2), also known as the collision cell, is where selected ions from Q1 are fragmented into product ions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is achieved by adjusting the voltage applied to the pair rods within the quadrupole, allowing ions with a particular m/z value to pass through while deflecting others. 
The second quadrupole (Q2), also known as the collision cell, is where selected ions from Q1 are fragmented into product ions. 
```

> This fragmentation happens due to the collisions between inert gas molecules (nitrogen, argon, or helium) and ions, which causes the ions to break up (fragment) into smaller pieces (fragment ions). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This fragmentation happens due to the collisions between inert gas molecules (nitrogen, argon, or helium) and ions, which causes the ions to break up (fragment) into smaller pieces (fragment ions). 
For more detail about peptide fragmentation, see the Tandem Mass Spectrometry section.
```

> This process is known as collision-induced dissociation (CID)[@DOI:10.1016/S0076-6879(05)02005-7; @DOI:10.1021/ac00106a008]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process is known as collision-induced dissociation (CID) [@DOI:10.1016/S0076-6879(05)02005-7; @DOI:10.1021/ac00106a008]. 
```

The Q2 is usually only subjected to RF potential and does not filter ions; instead, it transmits the product ions to the third quadrupole. 
In some tandem mass spectrometry, hexapole or octupole are also using to replace quadrupole as the collision cell. 
Lastly, the third quadrupole (Q3) acts as a secondary mass filter, similar to Q1, but with the purpose of selecting specific fragment ions produced in the collision cell while excluding other ions. 

> The chosen ions are then directed to the detector, where their abundance is measured (images/ms_f102.svg)(Figure 10.2). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chosen ions are then directed to the detector, where their abundance is measured (Figure 10.2). 
```

> This process, involving precursor ions selection, precursor ions fragmentation, and product ions detection, is a general operating principle in tandem mass spectrometry and determines what kind of scan mode you can utilize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process, involving precursor ion selection, precursor ion fragmentation, and product ion detection, is a general operating principle in tandem mass spectrometry and determines what kind of scan mode you can utilize.
```

> A key characteristic and advantage of QqQ is the flexibility of choosing various scan modes[@DOI:10.1021/ac00219a003; @DOI:10.1002/jms.703;10.1021/ac00106a008], including: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A key characteristic and advantage of QqQ is the flexibility of choosing various scan modes[@DOI:10.1021/ac00219a003; @DOI:10.1002/jms.703;10.1021/ac00106a008], such as the following.
```

> (1) Product Ion Scan: Q1 is set to filter a specific precursor ion, which is then fragmented in Q2. Q3 scans the full range of product ion masses. This mode is usually used to identify the structure of a particular compound. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Product Ion Scan: Q1 is set to filter a specific precursor ion, which is then fragmented in Q2. 
Q3 scans the full range of product ion masses. 
This mode is usually used to identify the structure of a particular compound. 
```

> (2) Precursor Ion Scan: Q3 is set to filter a specific product ion. Q1 scans the full range of precursor ions that, when fragmented in Q2, yield the selected product ion. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Precursor Ion Scan: Q3 is set to filter a specific product ion. 
Q1 scans the full range of precursor ions, that when fragmented in Q2, yield the selected product ion. 
```

The triple quadrupole mass spectrometer is a highly versatile instrument, capable of both qualitative and quantitative analysis. 
Enke and Yost at Michigan State University developed the first commercial triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer in the late 1970s[@DOI:10.1021/ja00475a072]. 
QqQ is particularly well-suited for targeted quantitative analysis due to its high sensitivity, selectivity, and dynamic range, which has made it a go-to instrument in areas such as drug metabolism studies, environmental monitoring, food safety analysis, pharmaceuticals, and clinical diagnostics [@DOI:10.1002/jms.659;@DOI:10.1016/j.cbi.2008.09.014;@DOI:10.1039/C3AY41104D;@DOI:10.1016/j.clinms.2019.09.002].  
However, Quadrupole suffer from inherent limitations in mass resolution due to the constraints of principles and precision in mechanical manufacturing. 
Consequently, they face difficulties in accurately identifying unknown molecules within complex mixtures and thus not appropriate for applications like structure analysis and biomarker discovery. 

> ![**Figure 10.2 Schematic diagram of typical QqQ system.**](images/MS_f102.svg){#fig:figure10.2 tag="2" width="9%"}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![**Schematic diagram of typical QqQ system**](images/MS_f102.svg){#fig:figure10.2 tag="2" width="9%"}.
```

> Figure 10.2 Schematic diagram of typical QqQ system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

W.E. Stephens constructed and published the design of the first time-of-flight (TOF) analyzer in 1946 [@doi:10.1103/PhysRev.69.674.2; @DOI:10.1063/1.1770801]. 
The principle of TOF is quite straightforward: ions of different mass-to-charge ratios (m/z) are imparted with the same initial kinetic energy (E = Uq = ½ mv2) and then separated over time as they travel along a field-free drift path of known length. 
If all ions begin their flight simultaneously, or at least within a short enough time span, the lighter ions will reach the detector before the heavier ones due to their faster velocity (V)[@DOI:10.1063/1.1715212]. 
Based on this principle, the m/z of different ions can be calculated according to the order in which they reach the detector. 
Similarly, we can easily conclude that the longer of the drift path, the higher of the mass resolution can reach if keep the response time of detector the same. 
In fact, in pursuit of higher mass resolution, researchers have indeed built time-of-flight (TOF) drift tubes that are tens of meters long. 
However, apparently, this is not practical for widely application in a regular lab place. 

> An alternative way to expand drift length and achieve higher resolution is to apply reflector (often called a reflectron) for TOF. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alternative way to expand drift length and achieve higher resolution is to apply reflector (often called a reflectron) for TOF. 
```
```suggestion
An alternative way to expand drift length and achieve higher resolution is to apply reflector (often called a reflectron). 
```

> The principles and advantages of using a reflector can be summarized as follows: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The principles and advantages of using a reflector can be summarized as follows.
```

> 1) Under ideal circumstances within a TOF mass spectrometer, ions sharing the same m/z would reach the detector concurrently post-acceleration, thus generating a sharp peak on the mass spectrum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under ideal circumstances within a TOF mass spectrometer, ions sharing the same m/z would reach the detector concurrently post-acceleration, thus generating a sharp peak on the mass spectrum.
```

However, the inherent oscillation path variability of ions within the mass spectrometer makes it challenging to maintain uniform initial kinetic energy amongst all ions, leading to peak broadening and a substantial reduction in mass resolution.
The reflector is designed to rectify this issue. Comprising a series of electrodes that set to different voltages, the reflector generates a retarding electric field that reverses ion trajectories back through the flight tube.
Notably, the reflector is engineered such that ions carrying lower kinetic energy delve less into the reflector and have a reduced flight path, while those with higher kinetic energy permeate more deeply and follow a longer flight path.
This equalizes the variances in initial kinetic energy, enabling ions of the same m/z to hit the detector almost simultaneously, thereby enhancing the resolution of TOF.
2) Furthermore, the usage of reflector effectively expands the flight path length within the same physical confines, resulting in superior ion separation and consequently, higher resolution.

> As such, reflecting TOF forms the basis of most commercial instruments currently in use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This reflection comes at the cost of some ion loss, and therefore some sensitivity loss. 
As such, reflecting TOFs are the basis of most commercial instruments currently in use.
```

The construction of a Q-TOF bears significant resemblance to a triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer, with the critical distinction that the third quadrupole has been replaced by a time-of-flight tube. 
Figure 10.3 delineates the schematic of a typical Quadrupole-Time-of-Flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometer, which comprises three fundamental components: 

> 1) Quadrupole mass analyzer (Q): This part of the instrument is basically the same to the Q1 in QqQ, which select specific m/z values to pass through by applying a combination of DC and RF voltages across the rods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Quadrupole mass analyzer (Q): This part of the instrument is basically the same to the Q1 in QqQ, which select specific m/z values to pass through by applying a combination of DC and RF voltages across the rods.
```

> 2) Collision cell: Here, selected ions undergo collision-induced dissociation (CID) by interacting with a neutral gas, leading to their fragmentation into smaller constituents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Collision cell: Here, selected ions undergo collision-induced dissociation (CID) by interacting with a neutral gas, leading to their fragmentation into smaller constituents.
```

This process yields structural information about the original molecules.
Usually, quadrupole, hexapole, or even octopole are used as the collision cell for better focusing and transporting.

> 3) Time-of-Flight (TOF) mass analyzer: Upon exiting the collision cell, the fragmented ions are reaccelerated into the ion modulator region of the time-of-flight analyzer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Time-of-Flight (TOF) mass analyzer: Upon exiting the collision cell, the fragmented ions are reaccelerated into the ion modulator region of the time-of-flight analyzer.
```

There, they undergo pulsing by a strong electric field (typically 20 kV or higher) and get accelerated to a field free drift tube, and then reflected to the detector.

> TOF generally offers mass resolutions surpassing 50,000, rendering it a reliable instrument for identifying unknown compounds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TOFs generally offer mass resolutions surpassing 50,000, rendering it a reliable instrument for identifying unknown compounds.
```

> Moreover, the rapid travel time of ions in the vacuum tube (at the nanosecond level) confers Q-TOF with distinctive benefits in short gradient and high-throughput analyses [@DOI:10.1101/657908;@DOI:10.1021/acs.jproteome.1c00446;@DOI:10.1074/mcp.M400161-MCP200].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, the rapid travel time of ions in the vacuum tube (at the nanosecond level) confers the Q-TOF with distinctive benefits in short gradient and high-throughput analyses [@DOI:10.1101/657908;@DOI:10.1021/acs.jproteome.1c00446;@DOI:10.1074/mcp.M400161-MCP200].
```

Another advantage of TOF is its broad mass range, which allows for the detection of large proteins, nanoclusters, and even large particles[@DOI:10.1021/acs.analchem.0c04339; @DOI:10.1146/annurev-anchem-071213-020015;@DOI:10.1039/D1MA00261A].
However, it should be noted that due to ion numbers and detector limitations, mass resolution is typically difficult to maintain over a wide mass range. 
Presently, Q-TOF related instruments are available from all leading instrument manufacturers, and the main models are listed below:

> Sciex: “TripleTOF® 6600+”, “TripleTOF® 5600+” System and “X500R QTOF” System, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sciex: “TripleTOF® 6600+”, “TripleTOF® 5600+” System and “X500R QTOF” System.
```

> Bruker Corporation: “Impact II”, “timsTOF” series, “microTOF-Q III”, “ultrafleXtreme-MALDI-TOF/TOF” and “maXis II”, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bruker Corporation: “Impact II”, “timsTOF” series, “microTOF-Q III”, “ultrafleXtreme-MALDI-TOF/TOF” and “maXis II”.
```

> Agilent Technologies: “Agilent 6530 Accurate-Mass Q-TOF”, “Agilent 6545 Accurate-Mass Q-TOF”, and “Agilent 6550 iFunnel Q-TOF”, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agilent Technologies: “Agilent 6530 Accurate-Mass Q-TOF”, “Agilent 6545 Accurate-Mass Q-TOF”, and “Agilent 6550 iFunnel Q-TOF”.
```

> Waters Corporation: “SYNAPT G2-Si HDMS”, “Xevo G2-XS QToF ” and “SYNAPT XS”, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waters Corporation: “SYNAPT G2-Si HDMS”, “Xevo G2-XS QToF ” and “SYNAPT XS”.
```

> ![**Figure 10.3 Schematic diagram of a typical quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer.**](images/MS_f103.svg){#fig:figure10.3 tag="3" width="80%"}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![**Schematic diagram of a typical quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer.**](images/MS_f103.svg){#fig:figure10.3 tag="3" width="80%"}.
```

> Figure 10.3 Schematic diagram of a typical quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### 3. Q-Orbitrap
Mass spectrometry that uses Orbitrap as the core mass analyzer is another critical pillar in the field of proteomics. 

> In the late 20th century, Russian scientist Alexander Makarov invented the Orbitrap[@DOI:10.1021/ac991131p], which is a novel mass analyzer that operates based on the principle of electrodynamic ion trapping and Fourier Transform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the late 20th century, Russian scientist Alexander Makarov invented the Orbitrap [@DOI:10.1021/ac991131p], which is a novel mass analyzer that operates based on the principle of electrodynamic ion trapping and Fourier Transform. 
```

The orbitrap consists of two main components: an inner spindle-like electrode and a coaxial outer barrel-like electrode (Figure 10.4 A). 

> The ions are trapped in an orbit around the spindle electrode due to the electrostatic attraction. Once inside, the ions begin oscillating along the central axis of the device, or "orbiting", due to the electric field formed by the inner and outer electrodes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ions are trapped in an orbit around the spindle electrode due to the electrostatic attraction. 
Once inside, the ions begin oscillating along the central axis of the device, or "orbiting", due to the electric field formed by the inner and outer electrodes. 
```

> The oscillation frequency of an ion is inversely proportional to the square root of its mass-to-charge ratio. The frequency at which each ion oscillates induces an image current on the detector, which can be measured and transformed into a mass spectrum using Fourier transform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The oscillation frequency of an ion is inversely proportional to the square root of its mass-to-charge ratio. 
The frequency at which each ion oscillates induces an image current on the detector, which can be measured and transformed into a mass spectrum using Fourier transform. 
```

The biggest difference between Orbitrap and other mass spectrometers (TOF, Q) is that it does not use ions to hit an induction device like an electron multiplier. 
One of the main advantages of the Orbitrap is its ultra-high mass resolution, often exceeding 240,000 or even higher. 
This gives the Orbitrap a significant superiority in the identification of unknown molecules such as peptides and metabolites[@DOI:10.1146/annurev-anchem-071114-040325;@DOI:10.1016/j.chroma.2010.02.022]. 
Moreover, Orbitrap spectrometers are also appreciated for their compact structure, small size, robustness, and reliability.

> Just like Q-TOF, Orbitrap was also usually used as a part of tandem mass spectrometry. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like the Q-TOF, the Orbitrap is also usually used for tandem mass spectrometry. 
```

Figure 10.4 B demonstrates a typical 2D schematic diagram of Q-Orbitrap. 
Ions first pass through an ion optics module, which consists of a high-capacity ion transfer tube (HCTT), an electrodynamic ion funnel (EDIF), and an advanced active beam guide (AABG). 
These are designed to capture ions, reduce ion losses, prevent neutrals and high-velocity clusters from entering the quadrupole, and increase sensitivity. 
The ions are then segmented by the quadrupole for precursor ion selection, and the selected ions are trapped by the ion-routing multipole for higher energy collisional dissociation. 
Finally, the fragmented ions are captured once again by the C-trap and injected into the Orbitrap batch-by-batch for accurate mass-to-charge analysis. 
Overall, this process still follows the logical sequence of precursor ions selection, precursor ions fragmentation, and fragment ions detection. 

> Compared to TOF, one disadvantage of the Orbitrap is its longer cycle time (AGC pre-scan, ion injection, ion isolation, ion activation and mass analysis, usually >100ms), which is a negative factor for the currently favored short gradient, high-throughput analysis. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Compared to a TOF, one disadvantage of the Orbitrap is its longer cycle time (AGC pre-scan, ion injection, ion isolation, ion activation and mass analysis, usually >100ms), which is a negative factor for the currently favored short gradient, high-throughput analysis. 
```

Another minor flaw of Orbitrap is the challenge encountered when trying to pair it with MALDI. 
This primarily stems from the fact that MALDI uses a pulsed ionization technique, whereas Orbitrap operates continuously.
This mismatch can lead to inefficiencies and challenges in coupling the two techniques. 

> At present, Orbitrap still dominates important applications in almost all aspects of proteomics including biomarker discovery[@DOI:10.1186/s12014-015-9102-9], post-translational modification (PTM) analysis[@DOI:10.1093/database/baab012; @DOI:10.1038/nmeth.4334], quantitative proteomics (LFQ, TMT, iTRAQ)[@DOI:10.1021/acs.analchem.2c02249; @DOI:10.1021/jasms.3c00072; @DOI:10.1038/s41592-020-00999-z], protein-protein interaction studies[@DOI:10.1016/j.tibtech.2016.02.014] and structural proteomics[@DOI:10.1038/s41467-021-27588-8; @DOI:10.1021/acs.analchem.1c03274]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At present, the Orbitrap still dominates important applications in almost all aspects of proteomics including biomarker discovery[@DOI:10.1186/s12014-015-9102-9], post-translational modification (PTM) analysis[@DOI:10.1093/database/baab012; @DOI:10.1038/nmeth.4334], quantitative proteomics (LFQ, TMT, iTRAQ)[@DOI:10.1021/acs.analchem.2c02249; @DOI:10.1021/jasms.3c00072; @DOI:10.1038/s41592-020-00999-z], protein-protein interaction studies[@DOI:10.1016/j.tibtech.2016.02.014] and structural proteomics[@DOI:10.1038/s41467-021-27588-8; @DOI:10.1021/acs.analchem.1c03274]. 
```

> It can perform both top-down and bottom-up analyses owing to its broad mass range, and suitable for both Data-Dependent Acquisition (DDA) and Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA) methods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can perform both top-down and bottom-up analyses owing to its broad mass range, and is suitable for both Data-Dependent Acquisition (DDA) and Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA) methods. 
```

> Right now. the Orbitrap is still under patent protection and only one company, ThermoFisher, is allowed to manufacture related products. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right now, the Orbitrap is still under patent protection and only one company, ThermoFisher, is allowed to manufacture related products. 
```

> Classic models from ThermoFisher include Orbitrap Ascend Tribrid, Orbitrap Eclipse™ Tribrid™, Orbitrap Fusion™ Lumos™, Orbitrap Exploris series (120, 240, 480) and Q Exactive™ series, etc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Classic models from ThermoFisher include Orbitrap Ascend Tribrid, Orbitrap Eclipse™ Tribrid™, Orbitrap Fusion™ Lumos™, Orbitrap Exploris series (120, 240, 480) and Q Exactive™ series. 
```

> ![**Figure 10.4 Schematic diagram of orbitrap (A) and typical Q-Orbitrap system (B).**](images/MS_f104.svg){#fig:figure10.3 tag="3" width="100%"}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![**Schematic diagram of orbitrap (A) and typical Q-Orbitrap system (B).**](images/MS_f104.svg){#fig:figure10.3 tag="3" width="100%"}.
```

> Figure 10.4 Schematic diagram of orbitrap (A) and typical Q-Orbitrap system (B).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

FT-ICR was first invented in 1974 by Alan G. Marshall and Melvin B. Comisarow from the University of British Columbia[@DOI:10.1016/0009-2614(74)89137-2] and is widely recognized for its high mass resolution and precision, making it a highly valuable tool in many scientific fields including proteomics, metabolomics, petroleum analysis, and environmental science. 
The central feature of an FT-ICR mass spectrometer is a superconducting magnet coupled with an ICR cell (Figure 10.5A). 
This magnet creates a strong and homogeneous magnetic field in which ions are injected. 
Once the ions are inside ICR cell, under the influence of the strong magnetic field, they follow a circular path with a very small orbital radius at a specific frequency directly proportional to their mass-to-charge ratio. 
At this point, no detectable image current signal is generated by detector plates located inside the ICR cell. 
To improve the signal, a voltage is applied by excitation plates and resonance occurs when the frequency of the strong magnetic field matches the cyclotron frequency of the ions. 

> The ions absorb radio frequency energy, which increases the radius of their circular path, and consequently, getting closer to the detector plates and generating a receivable current signal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ions absorb radio frequency energy, which increases the radius of their circular path, and consequently, the excited ions move closer to the detector plates and generate a current. 
```

The resulting signal is an oscillating pattern or a time-domain signal. 

> Similar to Orbitrap, this time-domain signal is then transformed into a frequency-domain signal using Fourier transform, hence the name Fourier Transform ICR. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to Orbitrap, this time-domain signal is then transformed into a frequency-domain signal using Fourier transform, hence the name Fourier Transform ion cyclotron resonance (ICR). 
```

The Fourier transformed data forms a mass spectrum where each peak corresponds to a specific ion present in the sample. 
One of the most important advantages of FT-ICR mass spectrometry is its exceptionally high mass resolution and mass accuracy, even for large and complex molecules. 
This enables precise identification and characterization of a wide range of compounds in complex mixtures [@DOI:10.1002/mas.21438; @DOI:10.1071/EN15230]. 
Moreover, FT-ICR mass spectrometry can be used for multiple stages of mass analysis (MSn), including tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS), providing detailed information about the structure of ions. 

> Another significant benefit of FT-ICR is its broad mass range, making it possible to identify macromolecules like proteins and workable for top-down proteomics[@DOI:10.1002/mas.20015;@DOI:10.1021/acs.analchem.7b04747; ]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another significant benefit of FT-ICR is its broad mass range, making it possible to identify macromolecules like proteins for top-down proteomics[@DOI:10.1002/mas.20015;@DOI:10.1021/acs.analchem.7b04747; ]. 
```

> Despite its advantages, FT-ICR mass spectrometry is not without challenges. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Despite its advantages, FT-ICR mass spectrometry is not without challenges. 
```

The technique requires high-performance superconducting magnets, which are expensive for both initial purchase and further maintenance. 
This is because FT-ICR requires liquid nitrogen and liquid helium cooling systems to keep the magnet at a sufficiently low temperature to maintain its superconducting state. 
Moreover, the device demands high vacuum conditions and careful temperature control to maintain the stability of the magnetic field and the ion trajectories. 

> A schematic representation of a Q-FT-ICR system was further depicted in Figure 10.5 B. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A schematic representation of a Q-FT-ICR system is shown in Figure 10.5 B. 
```

In congruence with the tandem mass spectrometers elucidated earlier, ions pass through an array of ion optics modules which designed for ion focusing and purification. 
Following this, the ions are selectively filtered by the first quadrupole. 
After this filtration, precursor ions undergo fragmentation in the collision cell, which can be a quadrupole, hexapole, or octopole. 
The fragmented ions are subsequently re-concentrated by the ensuing focusing lens. 
Ultimately, these fragmented ions are trapped, excited, and detected within the ICR cell. 
At present, commercial FT-ICR mass spectrometers are available in both Thermo Fisher Scientific (“LTQ FT Ultra” and “LTQ FT Ultra Hybrid” systems) and Bruker Daltonics (“solariX” and “apex” series).

> ![**Figure 10.5 Schematic diagram of ICR cell (A) and typical Q-FT-ICR system (B).**](images/MS_f105.svg){#fig:figure10.3 tag="5" width="100%"}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![**Schematic diagram of ICR cell (A) and typical Q-FT-ICR system (B).**](images/MS_f105.svg){#fig:figure10.3 tag="5" width="100%"}.
```

> Figure 10.5 Schematic diagram of ICR cell (A) and typical Q-FT-ICR system (B).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### 5. Ion mobility
In the context of omics research, a fundamental task is the separation, identification, and quantification of molecules in complex mixtures. 

> Mass spectrometry alone can only provide two-dimension data including mass-to-charge ratio and their intensity. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mass spectrometry alone can only provide two-dimensional data including mass-to-charge ratio and their intensity. 
```

The core principle of ion mobility spectrometry is to separate ions in an inert gas under the influence of an electric field (E), and then measure the amount of time it takes for each ion to pass through drift tube, which is defined to be the steady-state drift velocity (Vd) correlated to the specific analyte’s mobility (K), as shown in Eq. 1. 
                           Vd = KE                                                                                        (Eq.1)
While the primary measurement in IMS analyses is the mobility (K), for many analytical applications, it has become routine to convert K into the calculated collision cross-section value (CCS or Ω) using Mason-Schamp equation (Eq. 3)[@DOI:10.1007/s13361-019-02288-2;].  
                        Ω=(3/16 〖(2π/μKT)〗^(1/2)  ze)/N0K0                                                               (Eq.2)                    
The components of the equation are defined as follows: e, charge of an electron; z, ion charge; N0, buffer gas density; μ, reduced mass of the collision partners; kb, Boltzmann’s constant; and T, the drift region temperature. 

> Although the Mason-Schamp equation isn't universally embraced, it is currently the primary formula the community uses to compute CCS. In basic terms, the CCS serves as a standard metric for the size in the gas phase, generally expressed in units of square Angströms (Å2). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the Mason-Schamp equation isn't universally embraced, it is currently the primary formula the community uses to compute CCS. 
In basic terms, the CCS serves as a standard metric for the size in the gas phase, generally expressed in units of square Angströms (Å2). 
```

However, according to the Eq.2, parameters including gas composition, working pressure, temperature within the mobility region, path of analyte movement, and the strength of the applied field can influence the final CCS value and may differ for each specific IMS platform. 

> Hence, direct comparison of CCS value between different platforms should be careful and calibration might be necessary.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence, direct comparison of CCS value between different platforms often requires calibration.  
```

> Generally, ion mobility techniques can be categorized into three separation concepts: (1) temporally dispersive, (2) spatially dispersive, and (3) ion confinement (trapping) and selective release (Figure 10.6 A)[@DOI:10.1021/ac8013669].

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Generally, ion mobility techniques can be categorized into three separation concepts: (1) temporally dispersive, (2) spatially dispersive, and (3) ion confinement (trapping) and selective release (Figure 10.6 A)[@DOI:10.1021/ac8013669].
```

Temporally dispersive methods produce an arrival time spectrum based on differences in the time it takes for ions to traverse a similar gas-filled drift region under the influence of an electric field. 
Time-dispersive technique inherently provides an extensive examination of all signals detected during a given observation window. 
However, a fundamental limitation of this wide-ranging analysis is the diminished sensitivity linked to a single time dispersion occurrence, which usually requires many (10−100) events to be aggregated to achieve statistically significant ion mobility measurements. 
In contrast, spatially dispersive methods separate ions based on mobility differences (charge, shape and size), leading them on distinct drift paths or trajectories, but without significant time differences. 
A characteristic of spatially dispersive techniques is the scanning of voltage to obtain a broad-band ion mobility spectrum.

> Typical ion mobilities of this technique including High Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry (FAIMS), uniform-field differential mobility analyzers (DMA), and the newly introduced scanned frequency ion mobility filter called transverse modulation ion mobility spectrometry (TMIMS). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Types of spatially dispersive ion mobility include High Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry (FAIMS), uniform-field differential mobility analyzers (DMA), and the newly introduced scanned frequency ion mobility filter called transverse modulation ion mobility spectrometry (TMIMS). 
```

Ion confinement and release strategies are recently developed techniques which trap ions in a pressurized drift cell by electric field, and then releasing them based on mobility distinctions. 
This technique relies on the ability to control the position of ions under elevated pressure conditions using precisely adjustable electrodynamic fields. 
It requires a precise fabrication craft and more complicated control system. 
While it has only been perfected recently, typical products like trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS) [@DOI:10.1021/acs.jproteome.5b00932;@DOI:10.1016/j.trac.2019.03.030] and cyclic traveling wave IMS have become commercially available[@DOI:10.1021/acs.analchem.9b01838]. 
Table 10.3 summarized typical ion mobility separation techniques, their separation concept, electric field direction, gas flow direction, strengths, and drawbacks. 
Also, for three categories of ion mobility techniques, we have selected a typical technique from each for brief introduction. 

Table 10.3 Typical ion mobility separation techniques.

> | Separation concept | Ion mobility techniques | Ion movement direction | Electric field direction | Drift Gas direction | Characters |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Separation concept | Ion mobility techniques | Ion movement direction | Electric field direction | Drift Gas direction | Characteristics |
```

| Temporally Dispersive | traveling wave IMS (TWIMS) | → |→→→ | # | High mobility resolution, faster than DTIMS. Low sensitivity, large size, low sensitivity, traveling electric field waves. | 
| Spatially Dispersive| high-field asymmetric IMS (FAIMS) | → |↑↓| → | Good as mass filter, Fast. No CCS measurement (Compensation voltage instead), low mobility resolution. | 
| Spatially Dispersive| transverse modulation IMS (TMIMS) | →|→ and ↑↓ | # | Transverse Modulation, compact instrumentation, orthogonal Separation, fast and high resolution| 
| Confinement and Selective Release | trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS) | → | ← | → | High mobility resolution, compact instrumentation, high sensitivity, high speed, high ion utilization rate| 
| Confinement and Selective Release | multi-pass cyclic traveling wave IMS | → |→→→ | # | High mobility resolution, improved Signal-to-Noise ratio and sensitivity, versatility (from small molecules to large biomolecules) and adjustability (number of passes can often be adjusted)|

'#' means stationary drift gas; →, ←, ↑↓ indicates drift gas direction or electric force direction; →→→ represents a wave and gradient electric field.

> ![**Figure 10.6 IM-MS.**](images/MS_f106.svg){#fig:figure10.6 tag="6" width="100%"}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![**Figure 10.6 IM-MS.**
Conceptional diagram of three types of ion mobility strategies (A) and schematic diagrams of three emerging IM techniques: (B) drift tube ion mobility spectrometry. 
(C) high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS). 
(D) trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS). 
](images/MS_f106.svg){#fig:figure10.6 tag="6" width="100%"}.
```

> Figure 10.6 Conceptional diagram of three types of ion mobility strategies (A) and schematic diagrams of three emerging IM techniques: (B) drift tube ion mobility spectrometry. (C) high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS). (D) trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When both are dropped from the same height, the solid ball reaches the ground before the feather because of air resistance. 
This observation doesn't contradict Newton's law of universal gravitation, as we have accounted for air resistance. 
In the context of DTIMS, the buffer gas in the drift tube acts as the “air resistance”, while the uniform electric field represents the “gravity”. 
Hence, ions with the same mass-to-charge ratio are separated based on their shape and size. 
This capability allows DTIMS to distinguish between isomeric compounds with identical masses but different structural configurations, given that these isomers might have distinct interactions with the drift gas. 
Also, follow the intuition of the free fall example, in DTIMS, smaller ions will move faster and hit the detector earlier than larger ions in DTIMS (Figure 10.6 B).  
DTIMS possess the strengths including high resolving power and allows for straightforward measurement of an ion's CCS from first principles[@DOI:10.1007/978-1-0716-0030-6_2; @DOI:10.1002/9780470027318.a9292.pub2]. 

> However, DTIMS also suffers from disadvantages including: 1) separation time is too long for all ions passing through the drift tube, relative to the accumulation time, decreases the duty cycle. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, DTIMS also suffers from disadvantages including: 1) separation time is too long for all ions passing through the drift tube, relative to the accumulation time, which decreases the duty cycle. 
```

To differentiate between ions, a so-called "compensation voltage" (CV), which is a DC offset voltage that compensates for the differential ion movement in the high and low fields, is applied[@DOI:10.1016/j.chroma.2004.08.119]. 
In this case, only ions with a specific response to the changing electric field and those that match the applied compensation voltage (CV) will have a zero net movement and are able to traverse the drift region to the detector, while others hit the electrode plate and be neutralized. 
By scanning or modulating the CV, different ion species can be selectively transmitted through the FAIMS device. 
In contrast to drift tube IMS in which the ion stream is sampled in discrete packets and all ions reach the detector, FAIMS is a continuous filtration technique that allows uninterrupted sampling of the ion stream, but only for a selected subset of the ion population. 
One of the good advantages of this continuous collection technique is greatly increase the signal-to-noise ratio for the ion(s) of interest by removing unwanted chemical noise, which make FAIMS more like a mass filter rather than ion mobility spectrometry. 

> The drawback of FAIMS is it cannot produce any CCS value and its low resolving power. Commercial FAIMS products from vendors including Thermo Fisher and WATERS are available now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The drawback of FAIMS is it cannot produce any CCS value and its low resolving power. 
Commercial FAIMS products from vendors including Thermo Fisher and WATERS are available now.
```
